---
title: "Pausch"
description: "Del pasado"
date: 2025-05-18
---


 Es raro que me ponga a ver videos así de largos en Youtube, pero esta charla me atrapo desde el primer minuto: [Randy Pausch Lecture: Time Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oTugjssqOT0).

 Tomé estas notas a finales de 2016. Las rescaté de mi blog en Tumblr.

##  Notes on Pausch’s time management lecture

### “The time famine”
Bad time management = stress.

### This is life advice.
If you are not going to have fun...
Then why?

### On being successful...
Being successful doesn’t make you manage your time well.
Managing your time makes you successful.

### About dreams...
Dreams are the first step to accomplishment, let yourself dream.

### Failing to plan is planning to fail...
Plan each day, each week, each semester.
You can always change your plan, but only once you have one.

### On todo lists...
Break down stuff in small steps. Take baby steps if you need to.
Do the ugliest thing first.

### About your inbox...
It’s not your to-do list.

### You need to know where you will be...
You need to have a system that allows you to know where you will be next Thursday at 2 o’clock.

### On making time...
You don’t find the time. You make it. And you make it by not doing something else.

### You defend what’s yours...
Find your creative time and defend it. Spend it alone.

### If you are a student...
Make a fake class and always got to a specific place in the library. There exists a chance that you may actually study.

### You think you have all the time in the world because you are single...
And that’s the problem. You approach it like you have all the time in the world.

### Procrastination...
The thief of time.

### If you have no deadline...
Make a real deadline and act like it’s real.

### Do yourself a favor...
Kill your T.V.

### You need to sleep...
Please don’t be sleep deprived.

### If you haven’t got time to do it right...
Then you don’t have time to do it wrong.

### The truth about time...
It’s the only thing we have.


QEDP
